1. AMMONIUM SULPHATE
Ammonian sulphate (NH4)2SO4 ins Salt with a an
norganic number of commercial uses. The most
common use is as a soil fertilize(It contains 21%
nitrogen and 24% Sulphur), food activities treatment
of drinking water, etc.

2. SODIUM SULPHATE
Sodium sulfate (also known as sodium sulphate or sulfate of
soda) is the inorganic compound with formula Na2SO4 as well
as several related hydrates. All forms are white solids that are
highly soluble in water. With an annual production of 6 million
tonnes, the decahydrate is a major commodity chemical
product. It is mainly used as a filler in the manufacture of
powdered home laundry detergents and making highly
alkaline sulfides. It is commonly used in the Kraft process of
paper pulping for making highly alkaline sulfides, and used in
Glassmaking, Textiles, Food Industry, etc.

3. MAGNESIUM SULPHATE
Sodium sulfate (also known as sodium sulphate or sulfate of
soda) is the inorganic compound with formula Na2SO4 as
well as several related hydrates. All forms are white solids that
are highly soluble in water. With an annual production of 6
million tonnes, the decahydrate is a major commodity
chemical product. It is mainly used as a filler in the
manufacture of powdered home laundry detergents and
making highly alkaline sulfides. It is commonly used in the
Kraft process of paper pulping for making highly alkaline
sulfides, and used in Glassmaking, Textiles, Food Industry, etc.

4. ZINC SULPHATE
Zinc sulfate describes a family of inorganic compounds with
the formula ZnSO (H O) . All are colorless solids. The most 4 2 x
common form includes water of crystallization as the
heptahydrate, with the formula ZnSO4·7H2O. As early as the
16th century it was prepared on the large scale, and was
historically known as "white vitriol"[5] (the name was used,
for example, in 1620s by the collective writing under the
pseudonym of Basil Valentine). Zinc sulfate and its hydrates
are colourless solids. It is commonly used in Manufacturing
of rayon, Nutrition, Medicine, floating regent for the mining
industries etc.

5. POTASSIUM SULPHATE
Potassium sulfate or potassium sulphate also called
sulphate of potash (SOP), arcanite, or archaically potash of
sulfur, is the inorganic compound with formula K SO , a 2 4
white water-soluble solid. It is commonly used in fertilizers,
providing both potassium and sulfur. It is commonly used in
fertilizer, manufacturing of glass, soda blasting.

6. FERROUS SULPHATE
Ferrous sulfate is a type of iron. You normally get iron from
the foods you eat. In your body, iron becomes a part of your
hemoglobin and myoglobin. Hemoglobin carries oxygen
through your blood to tissues and organs. Myoglobin helps
your muscle cells store oxygen. It is commonly used in
Pharma industries.

7. CALCIUM CHLORIDE
Calcium chloride is an inorganic compound – a salt with the
chemical formula CaCl . It is white flakes or pellets at room 2
temperature, and is highly soluble in water. Calcium
chloride desiccants work well over a temperature range
from freezing point up to 80 °C or more. Calcium chloride is
often used for de-icing or dust control on gravel roads, in
food or as the absorbing agent in desiccants. In much of the
world, calcium chloride is derived from limestone as a byproduct
of the Solvay process. Calcium chloride can also be
obtained from brine purification.

8. AMMONIUM CHLORIDE
Ammonium chloride is an inorganic chemical compound with
the formula NH4Cl and a white crystalline salt that is highly
soluble in water. Solutions of ammonium chloride are mildly
acidic. In its naturally occurring mineralogic form, it is known as
sal ammoniac. The mineral is commonly formed on burning
coal dumps from condensation of coal-derived gases. It is also
found around some types of volcanic vents. It is mainly used as
fertilizer and a flavouring agent in some types of liquorice. It is
the product from the reaction of hydrochloric acid and
ammonia.


9. POTASSIUM CHLORIDE
Potassium chloride (KCl, or potassium salt) is a metal halide salt
composed of potassium and chlorine. It is odorless and has a
white or colorless vitreous crystal appearance. The solid
dissolves readily in water, and its solutions have a salt-like taste.
Potassium chloride can be obtained from ancient dried lake
deposits. [7] KCl is used as a fertilizer, [8] in medicine, in scientific
applications, domestic water softeners (as a substitute for
sodium chloride salt), and in food processing, where it may be
known as E number additive E508.

10. ALUMINIUM CHLORIDE
Aluminium chloride, also known as aluminium trichloride, is an
inorganic compound with the formula AlCl . It forms a hexahydrate 3
with the formula [Al(H O) ]Cl , containing six water molecules of 2 6 3
hydration. Both the anhydrous form and the hexahydrate are
colourless crystals, but samples are often contaminated with
iron(III) chloride, giving them a yellow colour.

11. SODIUM SULPHIDE
Sodium sulfide is a chemical compound with the formula Na2S, or
more commonly its hydrate Na S·9H2O. Both the anhydrous and 2
the hydrated salts in pure crystalline form are colorless solids,
although technical grades of sodium sulfide are generally yellow
to brick red owing to the presence of polysulfides and commonly
supplied as a crystalline mass, in flake form, or as a fused solid. They
are water-soluble, giving strongly alkaline solutions. When
exposed to moist air, Na S and its hydrates emit hydrogen sulfide, 2
an extremely toxic, flammable and corrosive gas which smells like
rotten eggs.

12. DICALCIUM PHOSPHATE
Dicalcium phosphate is the calcium phosphate with the formula
CaHPO and its dihydrate. The "di" prefix in the common name 4
arises because the formation of the HPO 2– anion involves the 4
removal of two protons from phosphoric acid, H PO . It is also 3 4
known as dibasic calcium phosphate or calcium monohydrogen
phosphate. Dicalcium phosphate is used as a food additive, it is
found in some toothpastes as a polishing agent and is a
biomaterial.
Dibasic calcium phosphate is mainly used as a dietary supplement
in prepared breakfast cereals, dog treats, enriched flour, and
noodle products. It is also used as a tableting agent in some
pharmaceutical preparations, including some products meant to
eliminate body odor.

13. SODIUM BI SULPHITE
Sodium bisulfite (or sodium bisulphite, sodium hydrogen sulfite) is a
chemical mixture with the approximate chemical formula NaHSO3.
Sodium bisulfite in fact is not a real compound, but a mixture of salts
that dissolve in water to give solutions composed of sodium and
bisulfite ions. It appears in form of white or yellowish-white crystals
with an odor of sulfur dioxide. Regardless of its ill-defined nature,
sodium bisulfite is used in many different industries such as a food
additive with E number E222 in the food industry, a reducing agent
in the cosmetic industry, and a decomposer of residual hypochlorite
used in the bleaching industry.

14. ALUMINIUM HYDROXIDE
Virtually all the aluminium hydroxide used
commercially is manufactured by the Bayer
process[10] which involves dissolving bauxite in
sodium hydroxide at temperatures up to 270 °C
(518 °F). The waste solid, bauxite tailings, is
removed and aluminium hydroxide is precipitated
from the remaining solution of sodium aluminate.
This aluminium hydroxide can be converted to
aluminium oxide or alumina by calcination.
Aluminum hydroxide is a medication used in the management and treatment of acid indigestion. It
is in the antacid class of drugs. This activity outlines the indications, action, and contraindications for
aluminum hydroxide as a valuable agent in the management of acid indigestion or topical burns. This
activity will highlight the mechanism of action, adverse event profile, and other key factors (e.g., offlabel
uses, dosing, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, monitoring, relevant interactions)
pertinent for members of the healthcare team in the treatment of patients with acid reflux and
related conditions.

15. HYDROCHLORIC ACID
Hydrochloric acid (HCl) is commonly used for the neutralization of alkaline agents,
as a bleaching agent, in food, textile, metal, and rubber industries. It is neutralized
if released into the soil and it rapidly hydrolyzes when exposed to water.

16. SULFURIC ACID
Hydrochloric acid (HCl) is commonly used for the neutralization of alkaline
agents, as a bleaching agent, in food, textile, metal, and rubber industries. It is
neutralized if released into the soil and it rapidly hydrolyzes when exposed to
water.

17. Sodium Hydroxide
Sodium hydroxide is sometimes called caustic soda or lye. It is
a common ingredient in cleaners and soaps. At room
temperature, sodium hydroxide is a white, odorless solid.
Liquid sodium hydroxide is colorless and has no odor. Sodium
hydroxide is a popular strong base used in industry. Sodium
hydroxide is used in the manufacture of sodium salts and
detergents, pH regulation, and organic synthesis. In bulk, it is
most often handled as an aqueous solution, since solutions
are cheaper and easier to handle.
Other common uses of sodium hydroxide include:
for making soaps and detergents. Sodium hydroxide is used for hard bar soap, while potassium
hydroxide is used for liquid soaps.[30][31] Sodium hydroxide is used more often than potassium
hydroxide because it is cheaper and a smaller quantity is needed.